## About scMiko

scMiko is an R package developed for single-cell RNA-seq analysis. It was designed using the [Seurat](https://satijalab.org/seurat/) framework, and offers existing and novel single-cell analytic work flows. 

Refer to our [getting started with scMiko](articles/install.html) vignette for installation instructions. 

New features offered in scMiko include:

- Differential expression analysis using the **co-dependency index (CDI)**
    - CDI identified binary DEGs
    - binary DEGs are highly-specific 
    - [Vignette](articles/DEG.html)
- Specificity-based cluster **resolution selection criterion**
    - method to identify optimal clustering configurations 
    - out-performs resampling-based approaches
    - [Vignette](articles/Cluster_Optimization.html)
- Cell-type annotation using **Miko Scoring pipeline**
    - unbiased scoring of variably-sized gene sets
    - hypothesis-testing frame work that accepts or rejects of candidate annotations
    - [Vignette](articles/Cell_Annotation.html)
- Gene module detection using **scale-free shared-nearest neighbor network (SSN) analysis**
    - module detection algorithm to identify and functionally annotate gene modules in an unsupervised manner
    - outperforms ICA and NMF methods in terms of GO term recovery and STRING PPI enrichment
    - [Vignette](articles/Module_Detection.html)
    
Details can be found in our recent work: [Mikolajewicz, et al., BioRxiv](...)
    
## About scPipeline

The scPipeline analysis pipeline is a modular collection of R markdown scripts that generates dashboard reports for scRNAseq analyses, and is dependent on the scMiko package. The modular framework permits flexible usage, without necessitating complete reliance on a single analysis platform. Additionally, the self-contained reports that are generated by each module provide a comprehensive analysis summary and log of analytic parameters and scripts, thereby ensuring reproducible and shareable analysis workflows. 

Refer to our [getting started with scPipeline](articles/install.html) vignette for installation and configuration instructions. 

Current the following analysis modules are available:

- QC & preprocessing
- Integration
- Cluster optimization
- Cell-type annotation
- Gene expression and association analyses
- Gene module detection 

**scMiko** and **scPipeline** are developed and maintained by the Moffat lab. 

## Authors

* [Nicholas Mikolajewicz](https://scholar.google.ca/citations?user=LBWQMXsAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao)

## Acknowledgments

* Hong Han and Kevin Brown from the [Moffat Lab](http://moffatlab.ccbr.utoronto.ca/)
